                                           Arrays in JS 
o	What is array? -> An array is a special variable, which can hold more than one value

o	Index in array The index indicates the position of the element within the array (starting from 1) and is either a number or a field containing a number.

o	Different type of arrays in js 
o	[1,2,3]
o	[1,”abc”,2]
 An array can hold many values under a single name, and you can access the values by referring to an index number.


o	Introduction of new keyword in JS->

o	Array methods
o	.length-> The length property returns the length (size) of an array. syntax->arrayname.length
o	.toString ->The JavaScript method toString() converts an array to a string of (comma separated) array values.
o	.pop-> The pop() method removes the last element from an array. The pop() method returns the value that was "popped out":
         
o	.push-> The push() method adds a new element to an array (at the end)
 
o	.shift-> The shift() method removes the first array element and "shifts" all other elements to a lower index.
o	.unshift-> The unshift() method adds a new element to an array (at the beginning), and "unshifts" older elements:
o	.join -> The join() method joins all array elements into a string.

           It behaves just like toString(), but in addition you can specify the separator

o	.delete-> deletes the element
        Array elements can be deleted using the JavaScript operator delete.

        Using delete leaves undefined holes in the array.

        Use pop() or shift() instead.

o	.concat -> The concat() method creates a new array by merging (concatenating) existing arrays: arr1.concat(arr2) and can add string value.



o	.splice->The splice() method adds new items to an array.

With clever parameter setting, you can use splice() to remove elements without leaving "holes" in the array

The first parameter (2) defines the position where new elements should be added (spliced in).


The second parameter (0) defines how many elements should be removed.

The rest of the parameters ("Lemon" , "Kiwi") define the new elements to be added.

The splice() method returns an array with the deleted items:

o	.slice-> The slice() method slices out a piece of an array into a new array.
                 syntax- arrname.slice(index)
                  slice out the rest array after particular index number.
                  arrname.slice(start end) exclude the end point.

o	.sort->The sort() method sorts an array alphabetically:

o	Iteration in array
o	ForEach
o	For loop

o	Advance of array methods
o	.filter
o	.map
o	.reduce
